

Individuals should have their rights enshrined in a document not unlike that of the bill of rights. When considering what rights people have to
privacy, and when and how these rights should be applied, both individual and collective considerations must be made, with respect to data. 
The right to privacy is something which, to a great extent, has been ceeded in this country. We have, bit by bit, allowed more and more of our
information to be gathered, accepting that less and less is guaranteed to be private, as if this is inevitable. That is not the case. While it is 
certainly true that, in this country, privacy rights have been neglected to a great extent. It does not need to be this way. We can, and should, 
take action to ensure that future generations not only retain, but, in fact, regain rights to privacy. 

Who guarantees these rights? 
In this country, for the most part, privacy rights are an afterthought. Just by virtue of use of an app, individual users have signed away 
significant rights, and for the most part unawares. For this reason, Privacy Rights can and should be championed by the government. 
Individual corporations have not been and are unlikely to do the right thing, because, while the data that they are combing from individual users
has limited use individually, but when collected into a mass, holds great meaning and great value. They are financially disincentivized from
acting in a way that benefits the user. 

What rights should an individual be entitled to?

1. Education
Any attempt to enshrine a right to privacy among the people must necessarily begin with an educated populace. You cannot exercise a right,
or fight for one, that is not understood. To that end, the first right must be the right to an education about/an understanding of the topic. 
Individuals have the right to understand their rights. In the first place, it is crucial that individuals have an understanding of what privacy 
rights are, what is given up when users give up their data, and what is to be gained by keeping it. Similarly, it is crucial to have an honest 
conversation about what can be determined from data, even when it has been 'anonymized'. An individual cannot make an informed decision, if they
have never been adequately educated about a topic in the first place. Further, the implications of the data use should be made clear -  
financial, social, and otherwise.

2. Right to Encryption
Presuming the populace is educated, the first right should be a right to encryption. The government shall not infringe upon an individual's right
to encrypt their data and information, at their discretion. 

3. The Right to be Free from Surveillance
An individual should be assured that they should not be actively tracked, and that the data garnered from individual activities should not be stored
for a longer period than is needed to perform the service for which it was first generated.

4. The Right to be Forgotten
In some countries, for example those in the EU and Argentina, citizens have the right to have their digital footprint erased, at their request.
While imperfect, it allows individuals to request personal information to be removed from online servers, and search results. When information,
which can include images, content, and videos, is removed, it can not be found online.  It will also be removed from search results. Individuals 
should be able to request that data about them is removed from an organisation’s database – without requiring a reason. 

5. The Right to Anonymity
When providing access to a database, even an anonymized one, individual users with data in the database should have the right to request removal.
Even anonymized data can, when combined with other data sets, be deanonymized. 

6. Right to Opt IN
Instead of a default opt-in assumption garnered in fine print by virtue of using a service, individual users should need to actively choose 
to give their data to companies.
